I am preparing for my first speech
within level two of the pathways program
and the particular path I'm on which is
motivational strategies. And this speech
that I've been assigned has to do with
understanding your own communication
style. Now, pathways is interesting
because there are five levels to each
path. And no matter which of the paths
you're on, level one is basically
identical for every single path. But
level two is where it starts to switch
up and get a little bit different
depending which path you're on. So some
of the level two speeches that you may
get assigned depending which path you're
on are things like understanding your
communication style, understanding your
leadership style, active listening,
managing time, effective body language,
and crosscultural communication. These
are all options and depending on the
path that you're on, you will get
assigned different speeches and then
every single level two again regardless
of the path has a introduction to
mentoring which is an assignment there
as well. So, I'm diving into my speech
and preparing for understanding my
communication style. And it's really
cool within Pathways because they
actually have a quiz you can take to
understand what type of communicator are
you. And according to Toastmasters,
there are four different communication
types. There is the supportive
communicator, the analytical
communicator, the initiating
communicator, and the direct
communicator. So you answer a number of
quiz questions and then it tells you
which type of communicator you are. Now
as I was going through this I realized
that there's an acronym to help you
remember it and that is said as in S AI
D. Supportive, analytical, initiating
and direct. So might help you remember
it that way. And here's the differences
between these communication styles.
Supportive communicators are often
really good listeners. They're
empathetic. They're kind. If they are
communicating, they often do so in a way
that is being very mindful of the
feelings of whoever they're talking to.
The downside, because all of these
speaking styles have their pros, but
also have their cons. The downside for
supportive communicators is they can
come across as a little bit indecisive.
They're wishy-washy because they don't
want to disrupt or hurt somebody's
feelings from time to time. Then there's
the analytical communicators and these
are the people who know their data. They
have their numbers, they have charts,
they have factual information. And when
you're communicating to an analytical
communicator, if you're telling stories
and being very abstract, your message
probably isn't landing with them. They
want concrete data. So, we know that
they're factually correct. That is a
positive. The downside is that a lot of
communication for keeping people's
attention has to do with dynamic and
spontaneous and being creative and
analytical communicators struggle with
that. They are much more formal. They
often struggle with vocal variety. So
that is a challenge for them. Then you
have initiating and initiating are very
good at being spontaneous and creative
and outside of the box. These are people
who are energetic. They're funloving.
The challenge that they have because
they're often very good presenters. The
challenge they have comes to listening.
They are often thinking about what they
want to say and they don't always tap
into hearing what the other person is
saying and that can create some friction
in conversations. So, it's important if
you're an initiating communicator that
you're really mindful of trying to hear
what the other person is saying in
one-on-one conversations. And finally,
we have direct communicators. And these
people are to the point. They're often
the lonewolf type. They're often
competitive, but they're direct. They
tell you the information. They cut
through all of the fluff and they
deliver that message. And sometimes
that's refreshing because especially in
Canada, we like to tiptoe around
different things, whereas direct
communicators will tell you the
information you need to know. The
downside is they can come across as a
bit aggressive sometimes or rude. And if
you get a direct person talking to a
supportive communicator,
that might lead to some frustration in
communicating both ways. I took the quiz
and I ended up being a 50/50 split. My
top scores were initiating and
supportive. I like to think of myself
when I'm giving a presentation as being
initiate initiating having that energy
and then hopefully on the listening side
I tap into that supportive piece but I
didn't register any score for analytical
or direct and the message there for me
is to know that if I am communicating to
analytical audiences or direct audiences
that I have to deliver the point I need
to get to the point I need to still have
my data backed up along with the stories
and the fun, there still needs to be
concrete takeaways. Another thing I want
to highlight is that there is no one
communication style that's necessarily
better than the others. They're simply
different. But that awareness is really
key when we know we're communicating to
one of these particular communication
types. And what I mean by this is if
you're delivering a presentation to a
room full of accountants, your message
will probably look different than if
you're presenting to a room full of life
coaches because there are probably
different communication styles amongst
those two groups knowing what they do
for a profession. So it's something for
us to keep in mind because we always
want to be delivering a message that is
of value to our audience. So for
yourself, if you are preparing for this
particular speech, the level two speech
one of the motivational strategies, the
understanding your communication style,
I encourage you take the quiz and then
find out what style you are. And then if
you're thinking about, well, what speech
can I do? Do you have an experience in
life where you have really demonstrated
whatever communication style ranked as
your highest? Or do you have a story
about trying to interact with a
different communication style and how
that created a real challenge that you
had to overcome? Or perhaps you give
your general thoughts about all of the
communication styles and the pros and
the cons. There are many different ways
you can take this speech. My speech that
I'm going to be delivering later this
week is going to focus on two bosses
I've had in the past. And one was an
initiating communicator and one was an
analytical. And it was very different
when I walked into each of their offices
how I would communicate with them
depending who I was talking to. And then
I thought it would be fun to deliver the
aounter report four different ways. So
I'm going to attempt to deliver an
aounter report in each of those
communication styles and then have the
audience guess which one I'm doing. I
hope this video was helpful for you if
you're taking on the understanding your
communication style speech or even if
you're finally delving into level two of
your path and this gives you a bit of a
broad general idea of what to expect. A
quick thought I want to leave you with
is that I did some diving into the
analytics on my channel and I realized
that only 10% of the people who watch my
videos are actually subscribed. That
means 90% of you watching this have not
subscribed to my channel. And I would
ask if you are serious about leveling up
your communication skills or improving
within Toast Masters, sign up to my
channel. It's the best thing you can do
to support yourself and your goal to be
a better communicator. It's absolutely
free and it does a great deal to support
my channel as well so I can continue to
deliver these educational videos. And if
you're just starting out on pathways and
you're on level one, speech one, the
icebreaker, check out this video that's
popping up because I talk about what you
should be thinking about going into that
speech. Thanks for watching this one and
good luck with your level two speeches.